README.md, before:

# Nixie Clock Overview

This is just another nixie tube clock that tells basic time. Two pushbuttons are used to set the time, one for the hour and the other for the minute, and a mechanical switch turns the tubes on and off.

Here is more info about [Nixie Tubes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nixie_tube).

# Core Components

The tubes used are four IN-12A, which require ~170V DC to illuminate. The
[NCH8200HV](https://omnixie.com/products/nch8200hv-nixie-hv-power-module)
is used to generate this voltage. Note that this voltage can be very dangerous if not handled with care! The mechanical switch cuts power from this module, which allows the tubes to be turned off. This avoids wasted power as well as less heat generated.

The nixie tubes are driven from four [K155ID1](https://tubehobby.com/datasheets/k155id1.pdf) ICs, one IC per tube. These are very obsolete, but were made specifically to drive nixie tubes. The microcontroller used for this project is the [STM32L010K4T6](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32l010k4.html), an Arm Cortex-M0+ MCU. The MCUs RTC is used along with an external 32.768 kHz crystal to keep more accurate time. Based on the one I've built myself, it consistently gains around two seconds per day.

# PCB

The PCBs were designed using KiCad in two separate projects. These are found in the `pcb` directory.

There are two PCBs, the main board and the tube board. The main board is where all the main components live (MCU, ICs, capacitors, etc.). The tube board is specifically for the tube sockets to be soldered to, and then the tubes to plug into those. The main board and tube board plug into each other via header pins. The male header pins are soldered to one board, and the female to the other. This is how the current flows from the main board to the tube board. It also allows the PCBs to be disassembled if necessary.

## Notes

The tubes should not be directly soldered to the PCB. Instead, solder tube socket pins (like
[these](https://www.etsy.com/listing/856456136/gold-plated-nixievfd-tube-socket-pins?click_key=3aa738477236e6aae10748a8f744ee708d0334e3%3A856456136&click_sum=6581c23f&ref=listing-free-shipping-bundle-1))
to the PCB, then plug the tubes into those. This will allow replacement of a tube if one breaks.

# Enclosure

The `3d` directory contains the files for 3D printing an enclosure for the completely assembled clock. These parts require [threaded brass inserts](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07HKT5W7S/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o04_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1)
for the screws to secure everything.

The `PCB Spacers` are used for additional support between the boards. Without these, the boards can bend toward each other at the header pins and put stress on everything. Three of these spacers can be mounted while screwing the boards onto the front plate.

## Design Flaws

Due to the PCB using a Tag-Connect footprint for programming, the enclosure design pretty much requires the MCU to be programmed prior to assembling everything. If there is a desire to upload different firmware, then it will mostly have to be taken apart.

The DC jack that was used for this design requires to be mounted prior to soldering the wires to it. This restricts the enclosure from being completely removed without cutting the wires to this jack. This can easily be changed for a different style jack.

# Firmware

The firmware is a standard STM32 project set up using CLion and its integration with STM32CubeMX.

The only important thing to keep some form of is the `cycle()` function, which is found in `Core/Src/nixie_display.c`. All this does is cycle through each number on every tube, which is supposed to prevent cathode poisoning (frequency and duration probably needs adjusted).

## Programming the MCU

In order to avoid additional hardware, a
[Tag-Connect](https://www.tag-connect.com/product/tc2030-idc-6-pin-tag-connect-plug-of-nails-spring-pin-cable-with-legs)
footprint is used on the main board. This is used with an
[ST-LINK](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/st-link-v2.html)
device (clones should work just fine) to program the MCU.

### Issues

Unfortunately, using [stlink](https://github.com/stlink-org/stlink) doesn't seem to work with this particular MCU. To get around this, the project can be opened up in STM32CubeIDE and flashed using the built in debugging feature. Not ideal, but it works.

Commit message:

Updating README/dding link to github issue

README.md, after:

# Nixie Clock Overview

This is just another nixie tube clock that tells basic time. Two pushbuttons are used to set the time, one for the hour and the other for the minute, and a mechanical switch turns the tubes on and off.

Here is more info about [Nixie Tubes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nixie_tube).

# Core Components

The tubes used are four IN-12A, which require ~170V DC to illuminate. The
[NCH8200HV](https://omnixie.com/products/nch8200hv-nixie-hv-power-module)
is used to generate this voltage. Note that this voltage can be very dangerous if not handled with care! The mechanical switch cuts power from this module, which allows the tubes to be turned off. This avoids wasted power as well as less heat generated.

The nixie tubes are driven from four [K155ID1](https://tubehobby.com/datasheets/k155id1.pdf) ICs, one IC per tube. These are very obsolete, but were made specifically to drive nixie tubes. The microcontroller used for this project is the [STM32L010K4T6](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32l010k4.html), an Arm Cortex-M0+ MCU. The MCUs RTC is used along with an external 32.768 kHz crystal to keep more accurate time. Based on the one I've built myself, it consistently gains around two seconds per day.

# PCB

The PCBs were designed using KiCad in two separate projects. These are found in the `pcb` directory.

There are two PCBs, the main board and the tube board. The main board is where all the main components live (MCU, ICs, capacitors, etc.). The tube board is specifically for the tube sockets to be soldered to, and then the tubes to plug into those. The main board and tube board plug into each other via header pins. The male header pins are soldered to one board, and the female to the other. This is how the current flows from the main board to the tube board. It also allows the PCBs to be disassembled if necessary.

## Notes

The tubes should not be directly soldered to the PCB. Instead, solder tube socket pins (like
[these](https://www.etsy.com/listing/856456136/gold-plated-nixievfd-tube-socket-pins?click_key=3aa738477236e6aae10748a8f744ee708d0334e3%3A856456136&click_sum=6581c23f&ref=listing-free-shipping-bundle-1))
to the PCB, then plug the tubes into those. This will allow replacement of a tube if one breaks.

# Enclosure

The `3d` directory contains the files for 3D printing an enclosure for the completely assembled clock. These parts require [threaded brass inserts](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07HKT5W7S/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o04_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1)
for the screws to secure everything.

The `PCB Spacers` are used for additional support between the boards. Without these, the boards can bend toward each other at the header pins and put stress on everything. Three of these spacers can be mounted while screwing the boards onto the front plate.

## Design Flaws

Due to the PCB using a Tag-Connect footprint for programming, the enclosure design pretty much requires the MCU to be programmed prior to assembling everything. If there is a desire to upload different firmware, then it will mostly have to be taken apart.

The DC jack that was used for this design requires to be mounted prior to soldering the wires to it. This restricts the enclosure from being completely removed without cutting the wires to this jack. This can easily be changed for a different style jack.

# Firmware

The firmware is a standard STM32 project set up using CLion and its integration with STM32CubeMX.

The only important thing to keep some form of is the `cycle()` function, which is found in `Core/Src/nixie_display.c`. All this does is cycle through each number on every tube, which is supposed to prevent cathode poisoning (frequency and duration probably needs adjusted).

## Programming the MCU

In order to avoid additional hardware, a
[Tag-Connect](https://www.tag-connect.com/product/tc2030-idc-6-pin-tag-connect-plug-of-nails-spring-pin-cable-with-legs)
footprint is used on the main board. This is used with an
[ST-LINK](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/st-link-v2.html)
device (clones should work just fine) to program the MCU.

### Issues

Unfortunately, using 
[stlink](https://github.com/stlink-org/stlink)
doesn't seem to work with
[several STM32L0xxx MCUs](https://github.com/stlink-org/stlink/issues/1203).
To get around this, the project can be opened up in STM32CubeIDE and flashed using the built in debugging functionality. Not ideal, but it works.

* STLink GitHub issue: [1203](https://github.com/stlink-org/stlink/issues/1203)
